MY NOVEMBER GUEST 

JVly Sorrow, when she's here with me, 
Thinks these dark days of autumn rain 

Are beautiful as days can be; 

She loves the bare, the withered tree; 
She walks the sodden pasture lane. 

Her pleasure will not let me stay. 

She talks and I am fain to list: 
She's glad the birds are gone away, 
She's glad her simple worsted grey 

Is silver now with clinging mist. 

The desolate, deserted trees, 

The faded earth, the heavy sky, 
The beauties she so truly sees, 
She thinks I have no eye for these, 
And vexes me for reason why. 

Not yesterday I learned to know 
The love of bare November days 

Before the coming of the snow, 

But it were vain to tell her so, 

And they are better for her praise. 



TO THE THAWING WIND 

C^ome with rain, O loud Southwester! 

Bring the singer, bring the nester; 

Give the buried flower a dream; 

Make the settled snow-bank stream; 

Find the brown beneath the white; 

But whate'er you do to-night, 

Bathe my window, make it flow > 

Melt it as the ice will go; 

Melt the glass and leave the sticks 

Like a hermit's crucifix; 

Burst into my narrow stall; 

Swing the picture on the wall; 

Run the rattling pages o'er; 

Scatter poems on the floor; 

Turn the poet out of door. 






A PRAYER IN SPRING 

Oh, give us pleasure in the flowers to-day; 
And give us not to think so far away 
As the uncertain harvest; keep us here 
All simply in the springing of the year. 

Oh, give us pleasure in the orchard white, 
Like nothing else by day, like ghosts by night; 
And make us happy in the happy bees, 
The swarm dilating round the perfect trees. 

And make us happy in the darting bird 
That suddenly above the bees is heard, 
The meteor that thrusts in with needle bill, 
And off a blossom in mid air stands still. 

For this is love and nothing else is love, 
The which it is reserved for God above 
To sanctify to what far ends He will, 
But which it only needs that we fulfil. 






LOVE AND A QUESTION 

A Stranger came to the door at eve, 

And he spoke the bridegroom fair. 
He bore a green- white stick in his hand, 

And, for all burden, care. 
He asked with the eyes more than the lips 

For a shelter for the night, 
And he turned and looked at the road afar 

Without a window light. 

The bridegroom came forth into the porch 

With 'Let us look at the sky, 
And question what of the night to be, 

Stranger, you and I.' 
The woodbine leaves littered the yard, 

The woodbine berries were blue, 
Autumn, yes, winter 'was in the wind; 

* Stranger, I wish I knew.' 

Within, the bride in the dusk alone 

Bent over the open fire, 
Her face rose-red with the glowing coal 

And the thought of the heart's desire. 
The bridegroom, looked at the weary road, 

Yet saw but her within, 
And wished her heart in a case of gold 

And pinned with a silver pin. 



The bridegroom thought it little to give 

A dole of bread, a purse, 
A heartfelt prayer for the poor of God, 

Or for the rich a curse; 
But whether or not a man was asked 

To mar the love of two 
By harboring woe in the bridal house, 

The bridegroom wished he knew. 



STARS 

How countlessly they congregate 
O'er our tumultuous snow. 

Which flows in shapes as tall as trees 
"When wintry winds do blow! - 

As if with keenness for our fate, 
Our faltering few steps on 

To white rest, and a place of rest 
Invisible at dawn, 

And yet with neither love nor hate, 
Those stars like some snow-white 

Minerva's snow-white marble eyes 
Without the gift of sight. 






STORM FEAR 

\Vhen the wind works against us in the dark, 
And pelts with snow 
The lower chamber window on the east, 
And whispers with a sort of stifled bark, 
The beast, 

'Come out! Come outf- 
it costs no inward struggle not to go, 
Ah, no! 

I count our strength, 
Two and a child, 

Those of us not asleep subdued to mark 
How the cold creeps as the fire dies at length,- 
How drifts are piled, 
Dooryard and road ungraded, 
Till even the comforting barn grows far away, 
And my heart owns a doubt 
Whether 'tis in us to arise with day 
And save ourselves unaided. 






TO THE THAWING WIND 



with rain, O loud South wester! 
Bring the singer, bring the nester; 
Give the buried flower a dream; 
Make the settled snow-bank stream; 
Find the brown beneath the white; 
But whatever you do to-night, 
Bathe my window, make it flow > 
Melt it as the ice will go; 
Melt the glass and leave the sticks 
Like a hermit's crucifix; 
Burst into my narrow stall; 
Swing the picture on the wall; 
Run the rattling pages o'er; 
Scatter poems on the floor; 
Turn the poet out of door. 






A PRAYER IN SPRING 

Oh, give us pleasure in the flowers to-day; 
And give us not to think so far away 
As the uncertain harvest; keep us here 
All simply in the springing of the year. 

Oh, give us pleasure in the orchard white, 
Like nothing else by day, like ghosts by night; 
And make us happy in the happy bees, 
The swarm dilating round the perfect trees. 

And make us happy in the darting bird 
That suddenly above the bees is heard, 
The meteor that thrusts in with needle bill, 
And off a blossom in mid air stands still. 

For this is love and nothing else is love, 
The which it is reserved for God above 
To sanctify to what far ends He will, 
But which it only needs that we fulfil. 






FLOWER-GATHERING 


And in the morning glow, 

You walked a way beside me 

To make me sad to go. 

Do you know me in the gloaming, 

Gaunt and dusty grey with roaming? 

Are you dumb because you know me not, 

Or dumb because you know? 

All for me? And not a question 

For the faded flowers gay 

That could take me from beside you 

For the ages of a day? 

They are yours, and be the measure 

Of their worth for you to treasure, 

The measure of the little while 

That I've been long away. 



ROSE POGONIAS 

A saturated meadow, 

Sun-shaped and jewel-small, 
A circle scarcely wider 

Than the trees around were tall; 
Where winds were quite excluded, 

And the air was stifling sweet 
With the breath of many flowers, 

A temple of the heat. 

There we bowed us in the burning, 

As the sun's right worship is, 
To pick where none could miss them 

A thousand orchises; 
For though the grass was scattered, 

Yet every second spear 
Seemed tipped with wings of color, 

That tinged the atmosphere. 

We raised a simple prayer 

Before we left the spot, 
That in the general mowing 

That place might be forgot; 
Or if not all so favoured, 

Obtain such grace of hours, 
That none should mow the grass there 

While so confused with flowers. 






WAITING 
AFIELD AT DUSK 

What things for dream there are when spectre-like, 

Moving among tall haycocks lightly piled, 

I enter alone upon the stubble field, 

From which the laborers' voices late have died, 

And in the antiphony of afterglow 

And rising full moon, sit me down 

Upon the full moon's side of the first haycock 

And lose myself amid so many alike. 

I dream upon the opposing lights of the hour, 
Preventing shadow until the moon prevail; 
I dream upon the night-hawks peopling heaven, 
Each circling each with vague unearthly cry, 
Or plunging headlong with fierce twang afar; 
And on the bat's mute antics, who would seem 
Dimly to have made out my secret place, 
Only to lose it when he pirouettes, 
And seek it endlessly with purblind haste; 
On the last swallow's sweep; and on the rasp 
In the abyss of odor and rustle at my back, 
That, silenced by my advent, finds once more, 
After an interval, his instrument, 
And tries once twice and thrice if I be there; 
And on the worn book of old-golden song 
I brought not here to read, it seems, but hold 




And freshen in this air of withering sweetness; 

But on the memory of one absent most, 

For whom these lines when they shall greet her eye. 






IN NEGLECT 




As two in whom they were proved mistaken. 
That we sit sometimes in the wayside nook, 
With mischievous > vagrant, seraphic look, 
And try if we cannot feel forsaken. 






THE VANTAGE POINT 

If tired of trees I seek again mankind, 

Well I know where to hie me in the dawn, 
To a slope where the cattle keep the lawn. 

There amid lolling juniper reclined, 

Myself unseen, I see in white defined fc 

Far off the homes of men, and farther still, 
The graves of men on an opposing hill, 

Living or dead, whichever are to mind. 

And if by noon I have too much of these, 
I have but to turn on my arm, and lo, 
The sun-burned hillside sets my face aglow, 

My breathing shakes the bluet like a breeze, 
I smell the earth, I smell the bruised plant, 
I look into the crater of the ant. 






MOWING 

And that was my long scythe whispering to the 

ground. 

What was it it whispered? I knew not well myself; 
Perhaps it was something about the heat of the sun, 
Something, perhaps, about the lack of sound 
And that was why it whispered and did not speak. 
It was no dream of the gift of idle hours, 
Or easy gold at the hand of fay or elf: 
Anything more than the truth would have seemed 

too weak 

To the earnest love that laid the swale in rows, 
Not without feeble-pointed spikes of flowers 
(Pale orchises), and scared a bright green snake. 
The fact is the sweetest dream that labor knows. 
My long scythe whispered and left the hay to make. 






GOING FOR WATER 

And so we went with pail and can 

Across the fields behind the house 
To seek the brook if still it ran; 

Not loth to have excuse to go, 
Because the autumn eve was fair 

(Though chill), because the fields were ours, 
And by the brook our woods were there. 

We ran as if to meet the moon 

That slowly dawned behind the trees, 

The barren boughs without the leaves, 
Without the birds, without the breeze. 

But once within the wood, we paused 
Like gnomes that hid us from the moon, 

Ready to run to hiding new 

With laughter when she found us soon. 

Each laid on other a staying hand 

To listen ere we dared to look, 
And in the hush we joined to make 

We heard, we knew we heard the brook. 






A note as from a single place, 
A slender tinkling fall that made 

Now drops that floated on the pool 
Like pearls, and now a silver blade. 






REVELATION 

\Ve make ourselves a place apart 

Behind light words that tease and flout, 

But oh, the agitated heart 

Till someone find us really out. 

'Tis pity if the case require 
(Or so we say) that in the end 

We speak the literal to inspire 
The understanding of a friend. 

But so with all, from babes that play 
At hide-and-seek to God afar, 

So all who hide too well away 

Must speak and tell us where they are. 



THE TUFT OF FLOWERS 

Who mowed it in the dew before the sun. 

The dew was gone that made his blade so keen 
Before I came to view the levelled scene. 

f looked for him behind an isle of trees; 
I listened for his whetstone on the breeze. 

But he had gone his way, the grass all mown, 
And I must be, as he had been, alone, 

'As all must be/ I said within my heart, 
'Whether they work together or apart/ 

But as I said it, swift there passed me by 
On noiseless wing a bewildered butterfly, 

Seeking with memories grown dim o'er night 
Some resting flower of yesterday's deKght. 

And once I marked his flight go round and round, 
As where some flower lay withering on the ground, 
i 

And then he flew as far as eye could see, 

And then on tremulous wing came back to me. 



I thought of questions that have no reply, 
And would have turned to toss the grass to dry; 

But he turned first, and led my eye to look 
At a tall tuft of flowers beside a brook, 

A leaping tongue of bloom the scythe had spared 
Beside a reedy brook the scythe had bared. 

I left my place to know them by their name, 
Finding them butterfly weed when I came. 

The mower in the dew had loved them thus, 
By leaving them to flourish, not for us, 

Nor yet to draw one thought of ours to him, 
But from sheer morning gladness at the brim. 

The butterfly and I had lit upon, 
Nevertheless, a message from the dawn, 

That made me hear the wakening birds around, 
And hear his long scythe whispering to the ground, 

And feel a spirit kindred to my own; 

So that henceforth I worked no more alone; 

But glad with him, I worked as with his aid, 
And weary, sought at noon with him the shade; 



And dreaming, as it were, held brotherly speech 
With one whose thought I had not hoped to reach. 

v Men work together/ I told him from the heart, 
'Whether they work together or apart.' 






THE DEMIURGE'S LAUGH 

It was far in the sameness of the wood; 

I was running with joy on the Demon's trail, 
Though I knew what I hunted was no true god. 

It was just as the light was beginning to fail 
That I suddenly heard all I needed to hear: 
It has lasted me many and many a year. 

The sound was behind me instead of before, 
A sleepy sound, but mocking half, 

As of one who utterly couldn't care. 

The Demon arose from his wallow to laugh, 

Brushing the dirt from his eye as he went; 

And well I knew what the Demon meant. 

I shall not forget how his laugh rang out. 

I felt as a fool to have been so caught, 
And checked my steps to make pretence 

It was something among the leaves I sought 
(Though doubtful whether he stayed to see). 
Thereafter I sat me against a tree. 



A LINE-STORM SONG 

The line-storm clouds fly tattered and swiftj 

The road is forlorn all day, 
\Vhere a myriad snowy quartz stones lift, 

And the hoof-prints vanish away. 
The roadside flowers, too wet for the bee, 

Expend their bloom in vain. 
Come over the hills and far with me, 

And be my love in the rain. 

The birds have less to say for themselves 

In the wood- world's torn despair 
Than now these numberless years the elves A 

Although they are no less there: 
All song of the woods is crushed like some 

Wild, easily shattered rose. 
Come, be my love in the wet woods, come, 

Where the boughs rain when it blows. 

There is the gale to urge behind 

And bruit our singing down, 
And the shallow waters aflutter with wind 

From which to gather your gown. 
What matter if we go clear to the west, 

And come not through dry-shod? 
For wilding brooch shall wet your breast 

The rain-fresh goldenrod. 






Oh, never this whelming east wind swells 

But it seems like the sea's return 
To the ancient lands where it left the shells 

Before the age of the fern; 
And it seems like the time when after doubt 

Our love came back amain. 
Oh, come forth into the storm and rout 

And be my love in the rain. 



OCTOBER 

O hushed October morning mild, 
Thy leaves have ripened to the fall; 
To-morrow's wind, if it be wild, 
Should waste them all. 
The crows above the forest call; 
To-morrow they may form and go. 
O hushed October morning mild, 
Begin the hours of this day slow. 
Make the day seem to us less brief. 
Hearts not averse to being beguiled, 
Beguile us in the way you know. 
Release one leaf at break of day; 
At noon release another leaf; 
One from our trees, one far away. 
Retard the sun with gentle mist; 
Enchant the land with amethyst. 
Slow, slow! 

For the grapes' sake, if they were all, 
Whose leaves already are burnt with frost, 
Whose clustered fruit must else be lost 
For the grapes' sake along the wall. 



RELUCTANCE 

vJut through the fields and the woods 
And over the walls I have wended; 

I have climbed the hills of view 

And looked at the world., and descended; 

I have come by the highway home, 
And lo, it is ended. 

The leaves are all dead on the ground, 
Save those that the oak is keeping 

To ravel them one by one 

And let them go scraping and creeping 

Out over the crusted snow, 
\Vhen others are sleeping. 

And the dead leaves lie huddled and still, 
No longer blown hither and thither; 

The last lone aster is gone; 

The flowers of the witch-hazel wither; 

The heart is still aching to seek, 
But the feet question 'Whither?* 

Ah, when to the heart of man 
"Was it ever less than a treason 

To go with the drift of things, 
To yield with a grace to reason, 

And bow and accept the end 
Of a love or a season? 



North of Boston 



MENDING WALL 

Something there is that doesn't love a wall, 

That sends the frozen-ground-swell under it, 

And spills the upper boulders in the sun; 

And makes gaps even two can pass abreast. 

The work of hunters is another thing: 

I have come after them and made repair 

Where they have left not one stone on a stone, 

But they would have the rabbit out of hiding, 

To please the yelping dogs. The gaps I mean, 

No one has seen them made or heard them made 

But at spring mending-time we find them there. 

I let my neighbour know beyond the hill; 

And on a day we meet to walk the line 

And set the wall between us once again. 

We keep the wall between us as we go. 

To each the boulders *hat have fallen to each. 

And some are loaves and some so nearly balls 

We have to use a spell to make them balance: 

'Stay where you are until our backs are turned \ y 

We wear our fingers rough with handling them. 

Oh, just another kind of out-door game, 

One on a side. It comes to little more: 

There where it is we do not need the wall: 

He is all pine and I am apple orchard. 

My apple trees will never get across 

And eat the cones under his pines, I tell him. 

He only says, 'Good fences make good neighbours/ 




Spring is the mischief in me, and I wonder 

If I could put a notion in his head: 

'Why do they make good neighbours? Isn't it 

Where there are cows? But here there are no cows. 

Before I built a wall I'd ask to know 

What I was walling in or walling out, 

And to whom I was like to give offence. 

Something there is that doesn't love a wall, 

That wants it down/ I could say ( EIves' to him, 

But it's not elves exactly, and I'd rather 

He said it for himself. I see him there 

Bringing a stone grasped firmly by the top 

In each hand, like an old-stone savage armed. 

He moves in darkness as it seems to me, 

Not of woods only and the shade of trees. 

He will not go behind his father's saying, 

And he likes having thought of it so well 

He says again, 'Good fences make good neighbours. 



THE MOUNTAIN 

I saw so much before I slept there once: 
I noticed that I missed stars in the west, 
Where its black body cut into the sky. 
Near me it seemed: I felt it like a wall 
Behind which I was sheltered from a wind. 
And yet between the town and it I found, 
When I walked forth at dawn to see new things, 
Were fields, a river, and beyond, more fields. 
The river at the time was fallen away, 
But the signs showed what it had done in spring: 
Good grass-land gullied out, and in the grass 
Ridges of sand, and driftwood stripped of bark. 
I crossed the river and swung round the mountain. 
And there I met a man who moved so slow 
With white-faced oxen in a heavy cart, 
It seemed no harm to stop him altogether. 

'What town is this?' I asked. 

'This? Lunenburg.' 

Then I was wrong: the town of my sojourn, 
Beyond the bridge, was not that of the mountain, 
But only felt at night its shadowy presence. 
* Where is your village? Very far from here?* 




There is no village only scattered farms. 
We were but sixty voters last election. 
We can't in nature grow to many more: 
That thing takes all the room!' He moved his goad. 
The mountain stood there to be pointed at. 
asture ran up the side a little way, 
\nd then there was a wall of trees with trunks; 
After that only tops of trees, and cliffs 
Imperfectly concealed among the leaves. 
A dry ravine emerged from under boughs 
Into the pasture. 

'That looks like a path. 
Is that the way to reach the top from here? 
Not for this morning, but some other time: 
I must be getting back to breakfast now/ 

'I don't advise your trying from this side. 
There is no proper path, but those that have 
Been up, I understand, have climbed from Ladd's. 
That's five miles back. You can't mistake the place: 
They logged it there last winter some way up. 
Td take you, but Fm bound the other way.' 

You've never climbed it?' 

I've been on the sides, 

Deer-hunting and trout-fishing. There's a brook 
That starts up on it somewhere I've heard say 
Right on the top, tip-top a curious thing. 




But what would interest you about the brook, 

It's always cold in summer, warm in winter. 

One of the great sights going is to see 

It steam in winter like an ox's breath, 

Until the bushes all along its banks 

Are inch-deep with the frosty spines and bristles 

You know the kind. Then let the sun shine on it!' 

'There ought to be a view around the world 
From such a mountain if it isn't wooded 
Clear to the top.' I saw through leafy screens 
Great granite terraces in sun and shadow, 
Shelves one could rest a knee on getting up 
With depths behind him sheer a hundred feet. 
Or turn and sit on and look out and down, 
With little ferns in crevices at his elbow. 

* As to that I can't say. But there's the spring, 
Right on the summit, almost like a fountain. 
That ought to be worth seeing/ 

If it's there. 

'I guess there's no doubt 
About its being there. I never saw it. 
It may not be right on the very top: 
It wouldn't have to be a long way down 
To have some head of water from above, 
And a good distance down might not be noticed 




By anyone who'd come a long way up. 
One time I asked a fellow climbing it 
To look and tell me later how it was.' 

' What did he say?' 

'He said there was a lake 
Somewhere in Ireland on a mountain top.' 

'But a lake's different. What about the spring?' 

'He never got up high enough to see. 
That's why I don't advise your trying this side. 
He tried this side. I've always meant to go 
And look myself, but you know how it is: 
It doesn't seem so much to climb a mountain 
You've worked around the foot of all your life. 
What would I do? Go in my overalls, 
With a big stick, the same as when the cows 
Haven't come down to the bars at milking lime? 
Or with a shotgun for a stray black bear? 
'Twouldn't seem real to climb for climbing it ' 

f l shouldn't climb it if I didn't want to 

Not for the sake of climbing. What's its name^' 

'We call it Hor: I don't know if that's right/ 
Can one walk around it? Would it be too far?' 



( You can drive round and keep in Lunenburg, 
But it's as much as ever you can do, 
The boundary lines keep in so close to it. 
Hor is the township, and the township's Hor 
And a few houses sprinkled round the foot, 
Like boulders broken off the upper cliff, 
Rolled out a little farther than the rest/ 

' Warm in December, cold in June, you say?' 

'I don't suppose the water's changed at all. 
You and I know enough to know it's warm 
Compared with cold, and cold compared with warm 
But all the fun's in how you say a thing.' 


'Ever since Hor 

Was no bigger than a' What, I did not hear. 
He drew the oxen toward him with light touches 
Of his slim goad on nose and offside flank, 
Gave them their marching orders and was moving, 



A HUNDRED COLLARS 

Lancaster bore him such a little town, 

Such a great man. It doesn't see him often 

Of late years, though he keeps the old homestead 

And sends the children down there with their mother 

To run wild in the summer a little wild. 

Sometimes he joins them for a day or two 

And sees old friends he somehow can't get near. 

They meet him in the general store at night, 

Pre-occupied with formidable mail, 

Rifling a printed letter as he talks. 

They seem afraid. He wouldn't have it so: 

Though a great scholar, he's a democrat, 

If not at heart, at least on principle. 

Lately when coming up to Lancaster, 

His train being late, he missed another train 

And had four hours to wait at Woodsville Junction 

After eleven o'clock at night. Too tired 

To think of sitting such an ordeal out, 

He turned to the hotel to find a bed. 

'No room/ the night clerk said. 'Unless' 

Woodsville's a place of shrieks and wandering lamps 
And cars that shock and rattle and one hotel. 

'You say "unless."' 



'Unless you wouldn't mind 
Sharing a room with someone else.' 

'Who is it?' 



man. 



'So I should hope. What kind of man?' 

'I know him: he's all right. A man's a man. 
Separate beds, of course, you understand.' 
The night clerk blinked his eyes and dared him on. 

Who's that man sleeping in the office chair? 
Has he had the refusal of my chance?' 

'He was afraid of being robbed or murdered. 
What do you say?' 

Til have to have a bed.' 

The night clerk led him up three flights of stairs 
And down a narrow passage full of doors, 
At the last one of which he knocked and entered. 
'Lafe, here's a fellow wants to share your room.' 

'Show him this way. I'm not afraid of him. 
I'm not so drunk I can't take care of myself.' 



The night clerk clapped a bedstead on the foot. 
'This will be yours. Good-night,' he said, and went 

'Lafe was the name, I think?' 

'Yes, Layfayette. 
You got it the first time. And yours?' 

'Magoon,. 
Doctor Magoon.' 

'A Doctor?' 

'Well, a teacher/'' 

'Professor Square-the-circle-till-you're-tired? 
Hold on, there's something I don't think of now 
That I had on my mind to ask the first 
Man that knew anything I happened in with. 
I'll ask you later don't let me forget it.' 

The Doctor looked at Lafe and looked away. 

A man? A brute. Naked above the waist, 

He sat there creased and shining in the light, 

Fumbling the buttons in a well-starched shirt: 

'I'm moving into a size-larger shirt. 

I've felt mean lately; mean's no name for it. 

I just found what the matter was to-night: 

I've been a-choking like a nursery tree 

When it outgrows the wire band of its name tag. 




I blamed it on the hot spell we've been having. 
'Twas nothing but my foolish hanging back, 
Not liking to own up I'd grown a size. 
Number eighteen this is. What size do you wear?' 

The Doctor caught his throat convulsively. 
v Oh ah fourteen fourteen. ' 

'Fourteen! You say so! 
I can remember when I wore fourteen. 
And come to think I must have back at home 
More than a hundred collars, size fourteen. 
Too bad to waste them all. You ought to have 

them. 
They're yours and welcome; let me send them to 

you. 

What makes you stand there on one leg like that? 
You're not much furtherer than where Kike left you. 
You act as if you wished you hadn't come. 
Sit down or lie down, friend; you make me nervous/ 

The Doctor made a subdued dash for it, 
And propped himself at bay against a pillow. 

'Not that way, with your shoes on Kike's white bed 
You can't rest that way. Let me pull your shoes off.' 

'Don't touch me, please I say, don't touch me, 

please. 
I'll not be put to bed by you, my man.' 




'Just as you say. Have it your own way then. 
"My man" is it? You talk like a professor. 
Speaking of who's afraid of who, however, 
I'm thinking I have more to lose than you 
If anything should happen to be wrong. 
Who wants to cut your number fourteen throat I 
Let's have a show down as an evidence 
Of good faith. There is ninety dollars. 
Come, if you're not afraid/ 

f Tm not afraid. 
There's five: that's all I carry.' 


Where are you moving over to? Stay still. 
You'd better tuck your money under you 
And sleep on it the way I always do 
When I'm with people I don't trust at night.' 

'Will you believe me if I put it there 

Right on the counterpanethat I do trust you?' 

'You'd say so, Mister Man. I'm a collector. 
My ninety isn't mine you won't think that. 
I pick it up a dollar at a time 
All round the country for the Weekly News, 
Published in Bow. You know the Weekly News?' 

'Known it since I was young.' 



'Then you know me. 
Now we are getting on together talking. 
I'm sort of Something for it at the front. 
My business is to find what people want: 
They pay for it, and so they ought to have it. 
Fairbanks, he says to mehe's editor 
"Feel out the public sentiment" he says. 
A good deal comes on me when all is said. 
The only trouble is we disagree 
In politics: I'm Vermont Democrat 
You know what that is, sort of double-dyed; 
The News has always been Republican. 
Fairbanks, he says to me, "Help us this year," 
Meaning by us their ticket. "No," I says, 
"I can't and won't. You've been in long enough: 
It's time you turned around and boosted us. 
You'll have to pay me more than ten a week 
If Fm expected to elect Bill Taft. 
I doubt if I could do it anyway." ' 


* You see I'm in with everybody, know 'em all. 
I almost know their farms as well as they do/ 

' You drive around? It must be pleasant work/ 

It's business, but I can't say it's not fun. 
What I like best's the lay of different farms, 




Coming out on them from a stretch of woods, 

Or over a hill or round a sudden corner. 

I like to find folks getting out in spring, 

Raking the dooryard, working near the house. 

Later they get out further in the fields. 

Everything's shut sometimes except the barn; 

The family's all away in some back meadow. 

There's a hay load a-coming when it comes. 

And later still they all get driven in: 

The fields are stripped to lawn, the garden patches 

Stripped to bare ground, the maple trees 

To whips and poles. There's nobody about. 

The chimney, though, keeps up a good brisk smoking. 

And I lie back and ride. I take the reins 

Only when someone's coming, and the mare 

Stops when she likes: I tell her when to go. 

I've spoiled Jemima in more ways than one. 

She's got so she turns in at every house 

As if she had some sort of curvature, 

No matter if I have no errand there. 

She thinks I'm sociable. I maybe am. 

It's seldom I get down except for meals, though. 

Folks entertain me from the kitchen doorstep, 

All in a family row down to the youngest.' 

'One would suppose they might not be as glad 
To see you as you are to see them/ 

'Oh, 
Because I want their dollar? I don't want 




Anything they've not got. I never dun. 
I'm there, and they can pay me if they like. 
I go nowhere on purpose: I happen by. 
Sorry there is no cup to give you a drink. 
I drink out of the bottle not your style. 
Mayn't I offer you?' 

'No, no, no, thank you/ 

'Just as you say. Here's looking at you then. 
And now I'm leaving you a little while. 
You'll rest easier when I'm gone, perhaps 
Lie down let yourself go and get some sleep. 
Bnt first let's see what was I going to ask you? 
Those collars who shall I address them to, 
Suppose you aren't awake when I come back?' 

* Really, friend, I can't let you. You may need them.* 
'Not till I shrink, when they'll be out of style.' 
'But really I I have so many collars.' 

'I don't know who I rather would have have them. 
They're only turning yellow where they are. 
But you're the doctor as the saying is. 
I'll put the light out. Don't you wait for me: 
I've just begun the night. You get some sleep. 
I'll knock so-fashion and peep round the door 
When I come back so you'll know who it is. 




There's nothing I'm afraid of like scared people. 
I don't want you should shoot me in the head. 
What am I doing carrying off this bottle? 
There now, you get some sleep/ 

He shut the door. 
The Doctor slid a little down the pillow. 



Against the lounge beside it, though I doubt 

If such unlifelike lines kept power to stir 

Anything in her after all the years. 

He fell at Gettysburg or Fredericksburg, 

I ought to know it makes a difference which: 

Fredericksburg wasn't Gettysburg, of course. 

But what I'm getting to is how forsaken 

A little cottage this has always seemed; 

Since she went more than ever, but before 

I don't mean altogether by the lives 

That had gone out of it, the father first, 

Then the two sons, till she was left alone. 

(Nothing could draw her after those two sons. 

She valued the considerate neglect 

She had at some costtaught them after years.) 

I meanby the woilZ^'sJhiayjngpasscd it by"" 

As we^almost got by this afternoon^ 

It always seems to me a sort of mark 

To measure how far fifty years have brought us. 

Why not sit down if you are in no haste? 

These doorsteps seldom have a visitor. 

The warping boards pull out their own old nails 

With none to tread and put them in their place. 

She had her own idea of things, the old lady. 

And she liked talk. She had seen Garrison 

And Whittier, and had her story of them. 

One wasn't long in learning that she thought 

Whatever else the Civil War was for, 

It wasn't just to keep the States together, 

Nor just to free the slaves, though it did both. 




She wouldn't have believed those ends enough 
To have given outright for them all she gave. 
Her giving somehow touched the principle 
That all men are created free and equal. 
And to hear her quaint phrasesso removed 
From the world's view to-day of all those things. 
That's a hard mystery of Jefferson's. 
What did he mean? Of course the easy way 
Is to decide it simply isn't true. 
It may not be. I heard a fellow say so. 
But never mind, the Welshman got it planted 
Where it will trouble us a thousand years. 
Each age will have to reconsider it. 
You couldn't tell her what the West was saying, 
And what the South to her serene belief. 
She had some art of hearing and yet not 
Hearing the latter wisdom of the world. 
White was the only race she ever knew. 
Black she had scarcely seen, and yellow never. 
But how could they be made so very unlike 
By the same hand working in the same stuff? 
She had supposed the war decided that. 
What are you going to do with such a person? 
Strange how such innocence gets its own way. 
I shouldn't be surprised if in this world 
It were the force that would at last prevail. 
Do you know but for her there was a time 
When to please younger members of the church, 
Or rather say non-members in the church, 
Whom we all have to think of nowadays, 




I would have changed the Creed a very little? 

Not that she ever had to ask me not to; 

It never got so far as that; but the bare thought 

Of her old tremulous bonnet in the pew, 

And of her half asleep was too much for me. 

Why, I might wake her up and startle her. 

It was the words "descended into Hades' ' 

That seemed too pagan to our liberal youth. 

You know they suffered from a general onslaught. 

And well, if they weren't true why keep right on 

Saying them like the heathen? We could drop them. 

Only there was the bonnet in the pew. 

Such a phrase couldn't have meant much to her. 

But suppose she had missed it from the Creed 

As a child misses the unsaid Good-night, 

And falls asleep with heartache how should I feel? 

Fm just as glad she made me keep hands off, 

For, dear me, why abandon a belief 

Merely because it ceases to be true. 

Cling to it long enough, and not a doubt 

It will turn true again, for so it goes. 

Most of the change we think we see in life 

Is due to truths being in and out of favour. 

As I sit here, and oftentimes, I wish 

I could be monarch of a desert land 

I could devote and dedicate forever 

To the truths we keep coming back and back to. 

So desert it would have to be, so walled 

By mountain ranges half in summer snow, 

No one would covet it or think it worth 




The pains of conquering to force change on. 
Scattered oases where men dwelt, but mostly 
Sand dunes held loosely in tamarisk 
Blown over and over themselves in idleness. 
Sand grains should sugar in the natal dew 
The babe born to the desert, the sand storm 
Retard mid-waste my cowering caravans- 
Fierce heads looked out; small bodies pivoted. 
We rose to go. Sunset blazed on the windows. 







You ought to have seen what I saw on my way 
To the village, through Patterson's pasture to-day: 
Blueberries as big as the end of your thumb, 
Real sky-blue, and heavy, and ready to drum 
In the cavernous pail of the first one to come! 
And all ripe together, not some of them green 
And some of them ripe! You ought to have seenP 

'I don't know what part of the pasture you mean.' 

< You know where they cut off the woods let me see~ 

It was two years ago or no! can it be 

No longer than that? and the following fall 

The fire ran and burned it all up but the wall.' 

'Why, there hasn't been time for the bushes to grow % 
That's always the way with the blueberries, though: 
There may not have been the ghost of a sign 
Of them anywhere under the shade of the pine, 
But get the pine out of the way, you may burn 
The pasture all over until not a fern 
Or grass-blade is left, not to mention a stick, 
And presto, they're up all around you as thick 
And hard to explain as a conjuror's trick/ 

'It must be on charcoal they fatten their fruit. 
I taste in them sometimes the flavour of soot. 



And after all really they're ebony skinned: 

The blue's but a mist from the breath of the wind, 

A tarnish that goes at a touch of the hand, 

And less than the tan with which pickers are tanned/ 

'Does Patterson know what he has, do you think?' 

'He may and not care and so leave the chewink 
To gather them for him you know what he is. 
He won't make the fact that they're rightfully his 
An excuse for keeping us other folk out/ 

'I wonder you didn't see Loren about.' 

'The best of it was that I did. Do you know, 

[ was just getting through what the field had to show 

And over the wall and into the road, 

When who should come by, with a democrat-load 

Of all the young chattering Lorens alive, 

But Loren, the fatherly, out for a drive/ 

'He saw you, then? What did he do? Did he frown?' 

'He just kept nodding his head up and down. 
You know how politely he always goes by. 
But he thought a big thought I could tell by his eye 
Which being expressed, might be this in effect: 
!< I have left those there berries, I shrewdly suspect, 
To ripen too long. I am greatly to blame." ' 




'He's a thriftier person than some I could name/ 

'He seems to be thrifty; and hasn't he need, 

With the mouths of all those young Lorens to feed? 

He has brought them all up on wild berries, they say, 

Like birds. They store a great many away. 

They eat them the year round, and those they don't eat 

They sell in the store and buy shoes for their feet/ 

'Who cares what they say? It's a nice way to live, 
Just taking what Nature is willing to give, 
Not forcing her hand with harrow and plow.' 

'I wish you had seen his perpetual bow 

And the air of the youngsters! Not one of them turned, 

And they looked so solemn-absurdly concerned/ 

'I wish I knew half what the flock of them know 
Of where all the berries and other things grow, 
Cranberries in bogs and raspberries on top 
Of the boulder-strewn mountain, and when they 

will crop. 

I met them one day and each had a flower 
Stuck into his berries as fresh as a shower; 
Some strange kindthey told me it hadn't a name/ 

Tve told you how once not long after we came, 
I almost provoked poor Loren to mirth 
By going to him of all people on earth 




To ask if he knew any fruit to be had 
For the picking. The rascal, he said he'd be glad 
To tell if he knew. But the year had been bad. 
There had been some berries but those were all gone. 
He didn't say where they had been. He went on: 
"I'm sure I'm sure" as polite as could be. 
He spoke to his wife in the door, "Let me see, 
Mame, we don't know any good berrying place?" 
It was all he could do to keep a straight face.' 

'If he thinks all the fruit that grows wild is for him, 
He'll find he's mistaken. See here, for a whim, 
We'll pick in the Pattersons' pasture this year. 
We'll go in the morning, that is, if it's clear, 
And the sun shines out warm: the vines must be wet. 
It's so long since I picked I almost forget 
How we used to pick berries: we took one look round. 
Then sank out of sight like trolls underground, 
And saw nothing more of each other, or heard, 
Unless when you said I was keeping a bird 
Away from its nest, and I said it was you. 
"Well, one of us is." For complaining it flew 
Around and around us. And then for a while 
We picked, till I feared you had wandered a mile, 
And I thought I had lost you. I lifted a shout 
Too loud for the distance you were, it turned out, 
For when you made answer, your voice was as low 
fas talking you stood up beside me, you know/ 

( We ska'n't have the place to ourselves to enjoy 



Not likely, when all the young Lorens deploy. 
They'll be there lo-morrow, or even to-night. 
They won't be too friendly they may be polite 
To people they look on as having no right 
To pick where they're picking. But we won't com- 
plain. 

You ought to have seen how it looked in the rain, 
The fruit mixed with water in layers of leaves, 
Like two kinds of jewels, a vision for thieves.' 






A SERVANT TO SERVANTS 

I didn't make you know how glad I was 

To have you come and camp here on our land. 

I promised myself to get down some day 

And see the way you lived, but I don't know! 

With a houseful of hungry men to feed 

I guess you'd find. ... It seems to me 

I can't express my feelings any more 

Than I can raise my voice or want to lift 

My hand (oh, I can lift it when I have to). 

Did ever you feel so? I hope you never. 

It's got so I don't even know for sure 

Whether I am glad, sorry, or anything. 

There's nothing but a voice-like left inside 

That seems to tell me how I ought to feel, 

And would feel if I wasn't all gone wrong. 

You take the lake. I look and look at it. 

I see it's a fair, pretty sheet of water. 

I stand and make myself repeat out loud 

The advantages it has, so long and narrow, 

Like a deep piece of some old running river 

Cut short off at both ends. It lies five miles 

Straight away through the mountain notch 

From the sink window where I wash the plates, 

And all our storms come up toward the house, 

Drawing the slow waves whiter and whiter and 

whiter. 
It took my mind off doughnuts and soda biscuit 

To step outdoors and take the water dazzle 
A sunny morning, or take the rising wind 
About my face and body and through my wrapper, 
When a storm threatened from the Dragon's Den, 
And a cold chill shivered across the lake. 
I see it's a fair, pretty sheet of water, 
Our Willoughby! How did you hear of it? 
I expect, though, everyone's heard of it. 
In a book about ferns? Listen to that! 
You let things more like feathers regulate 
Your going and coming. And you like it here? 
I can see how you might. But I don't know! 
It would be different if more people came, 
For then there would be business. As it is, 
The cottages Len built, sometimes we rent them, 
Sometimes we don't. We've a good piece of shore 
That ought to be worth something, and may yet. 
But I don't count on it as much as Len. 
He looks on the bright side of everything, 
Including me. He thinks I'll be all right 
With doctoring. But it's not medicine- 
Lowe is the only doctor's dared to say so- 
ft's rest I want there, I have said it out 
From cooking meals for hungry hired men 
And washing dishes after them from doing 
Things over and over that just won't stay done. 
By good rights I ought not to have so much 
Put on me, but there seems no other way. 
Len says one steady pull more ought to do it. 
He says the best way out is always through. 




And I agree to that, or in so far 
As that I can see no way out but through 
Leastways for me and then they'll be convinced. 
It's not that Len don't want the best for me. 
It was his plan our moving over in 
Beside the lake from where that day I showed you 
We used to live ten miles from anywhere. 
We didn't change without some sacrifice, 
But Len went at it to make up the loss. 
His work's a man's, of course, from sun to sun, 
But he works when he works as hard as I do- 
Though there's small profit in comparisons. 
(Women and men will make them all the same. ) 
But work ain't all. Len undertakes too much. 
He's into everything in town. This year 
It's highways, and he's got too many men 
Around him to look after that make waste. 
They take advantage of him shamefully, 
And proud, too, of themselves for doing so. 
We have four here to board, great good-for-nothings, 
Sprawling about the kitchen with their talk 
While I fry their bacon. Much they care! 
No more put out in what they do or say 
Than if I wasn't in the room at all. 
Coming and going all the time, they are: 
I don't learn what their names are, let alone 
Their characters, or whether they are safe 
To have inside the house with doors unlocked. 
Fm not afraid of them, though, if they're not 
Afraid of me. There's two can play at that. 



I have my fancies: it runs in the family. 
My father's brother wasn't right. They kept him 
Locked up for years back there at the old farm. 
I've been away once yes, IVe been away. 
The State Asylum. I was prejudiced; 
I wouldn't have sent anyone of mine there; 
You know the old ideathe only asylum 
Was the poorhouse, and those who could afford, 
Rather than send their folks to such a place, 
Kept them at home; and it does seem more human. 
But it's not so: the place is the asylum. 
There they have every means proper to do with, 
And you aren't darkening other people's lives- 
Worse than no good to them, and they no good 
To you in your condition; you can't know 
Affection or the want of it in that state. 
I've heard too much of the old-fashioned way. 
My father's brother, he went mad quite young. 
Some thought he had been bitten by a dog, 
Because his violence took on the form 
Of carrying his pillow in his teeth; 
But it's more likely he was crossed in love, 
Or so the story goes. It was some girl. 
Anyway all he talked about was love. 
They soon saw he would do someone a mischief 
If he wa'n't kept strict watch of, and it ended 
In father's building him a sort of cage, 
Or room within a room, of hickory poles, 
Like stanchions in the barn, from floor to ceiling. 
A narrow passage all the way around. 



Anything they put in for furniture 

He'd tear to pieces, even a bed to lie on. 

So they made the place comfortable with straw, 

Like a beast's stall, to ease their consciences. 

Of course they had to feed him without dishes. 

They tried to keep him clothed, but he paraded 

With his clothes on his arm all of his clothes. 

Cruelit sounds. I 'spose they did the best 

They knew. And just when he was at the height, 

Father and mother married, and mother came, 

A bride, to help take care of such a creature, 

And accommodate her young life to his. 

That was what marrying father meant to her. 

She had to lie and hear love things made dreadful 

By his shouts in the night. He'd shout and shout 

Until the strength was shouted out of him, 

And his voice died down slowly from exhaustion. 

He'd pull his bars apart like bow and bowstring, 

And let them go and make them twang until 

His hands had worn them smooth as any oxbow. 

And then he'd crow as if he thought that child's play 

The only fun he had. I've heard them say, though, 

They found a way to put a stop to it. 

He was before my time I never saw him; 

But the pen stayed exactly as it was 

There in the upper chamber in the ell, 

A sort of catch-all full of attic clutter. 

I often think of tJig^nioathJiickof.y, bars. 

It got so I would say you know, half fooling 

'It's time I took my turn upstairs in jail' 

Just as you will till it becomes a habit. 




No wonder L was glad to get away. 
Mind you, I waited till Len said the word. 
I didn't want the blame if things went wrong. 
I was glad though ; no end, when we moved out, 
And I looked to be happy, and I was, 
As I said, for a while but I don't know! 
Somehow the change wore out like a prescription. 
And there's more to it than just window-views 
And living by a lake. I'm past such help 
Unless Len took the notion, which he won't, 
And I won't ask himit's not sure enough. 
I 'spose I've got to go the road Fm going: 
Other folks have to, and why shouldn't I? 
T almost think if I could do like you, 
Drop everything and live out on the ground- 
But it might be, come night, I shouldn't like it, 
Or a long rain. I should soon get enough, 
And be glad of a good roof overhead. 
Fve lain awake thinking of you, Fll warrant, 
More than you have yourself, some of these nights. 
The wonder was the tents weren't snatched away 
From over you as you lay in your beds. 
I haven't courage for a risk like that. 
Bless you, of course, you're keeping me from work, 
But the thing of it is, I need to be kept. 
There's work enough to do there's always that; 
But behind' s behind. The worst that you can do 
Is set me back a little more behind. 
I sha'n't catch up in this world, anyway. 
I'd rather you'd not go unless you must. 



AFTER APPLE-PICKING 

IVly long two-pointed ladder 's sticking through a 

tree 

Toward heaven still, 
And there's a barrel that I didn't fill 
Beside it, and there may be two or three 
Apples I didn't pick upon some bough. 
But I am done with apple-picking now. 
Essence of winter sleep is on the night, 
The scent of apples: I am drowsing off. 
I cannot rub the strangeness from my sight 
I got from looking through a pane of glass 
I skimmed this morning from the drinking trough 
And held against the world of hoary grass. 
It melted, and I let it fall and break. 
But I was well 

Upon my way to sleep before it fell, 
And I could tell 

What form my dreaming was about to take. 
Magnified apples appear and disappear, 
Stem end and blossom end, 
And every fleck of russet showing clear. 
My instep arch not only keeps the ache, 
It keeps the pressure of a ladder-round. 
I feel the ladder sway as the boughs bend. 
And I keep hearing from the cellar bin 
The rumbling sound 
Of load on load of apples coming in. 




For I have had too much 

Of apple-picking: I am overtired 

Of the great harvest I myself desired. 

There were ten thousand thousand fruit to touch, 

Cherish in hand, lift down, and not let fall. 

For all 

That struck the earth, 

No matter if not bruised or spiked with stubble, 

Went surely to the cider-apple heap 

As of no worth. 

One can see what will trouble 

This sleep of mine, whatever sleep itj. 

Were he not gone, 

The woodchuck could say whether it's like his 

Long sleep, as I describe its coming on, 

Or just some human sleep. 






THE CODE 

Gathering up windrows, piling cocks of hay, 
With an eye always lifted toward the west 
Where an irregular sun-bordered cloud 
Darkly advanced with a perpetual dagger 
Flickering across its bosom. Suddenly 
One helper, thrusting pitchfork in the ground, 
Marched himself off the field and home. One stayed. 
The town-bred farmer failed to understand. 

* What is there wrong?' 

'Something you just now said/ 
' What did I say?' 

* About our taking pains/ 

'To cock the hay? because it's going to shower? 
I said that more than half an hour ago. 
I said it to myself as much as you/ 

'You didn't know. But James is one big fool. 
He thought you meant to find fault with his work. 
That's what the average farmer would have meant. 
James would take time, of course, to chew it over 
Before he acted: he's just got round to act/ 




'He is a fool if that's the way he takes me.' 

'Don't let it bother you. You've found out something 
The hand that knows his business won't be told 
I'm as particular as anyone: 
Most likely I'd have served you just the same. 
But I know you don't understand our ways. 
You were just talking what was in your mind, 
What was in all our minds, and you weren't hinting. 
Tell you a story of what happened once: 
I was up here in Salem at a man's 
Named Sanders with a gang of four or five 
Doing the haying. No one liked the boss. 
He was one of the kind sports call a spider, 
All wiry arms and legs that spread out wavy 
From a humped body nigh as big's a biscuit 
But work! that man could work, especially 
If by so doing he could get more work 
Out of his hired help. I'm not denying 
He was hard on himself. I couldn't find 
That he kept any hours not for himself. 
Daylight and lantern-light were one to him: 
I've heard him pounding in the barn all night. 
But what he liked was someone to encourage. 
Them that he couldn't lead he'd get behind 
And drive, the way you can, you know, in mowing- 
Keep at their heels and threaten to mow their legs off 
I'd seen about enough of his bulling tricks 
(We call that bulling). I'd been watching him. 




So when he paired off with me in the hayfield 

To load the load, thinks I, Look out for trouble. 

I built the load and topped it off; old Sanders 

Combed it down with a rake and says, "O. K." 

Everything went well till we reached the barn 

With a big jag to empty in a bay. 

You understand that meant the easy job 

For the man up on top of throwing down 

The hay and rolling it off wholesale, 

Where on a mow it would have been slow lifting. 

You wouldn't think a fellow'd need much urging 

Under those circumstances, would you now? 

But the old fool seizes his fork in both hands, 

And looking up bewhiskered out of the pit, 

Shouts like an army captain, "Let her come!" 

Thinks I, D'ye mean it? " What was that you said?" 

I asked out loud, so's there'd be no mistake, 

"Did you say, Let her come?" "Yes, let her come." 

He said it over, but he said it softer. 

Never you say a thing like that to a man, 

Not if he values what he is. God, I'd as soon 

Murdered him as left out his middle name. 

Fd built the load and knew right where to find it. 

Two or three forkfuls I picked lightly round for 

Like meditating, and then I just dug in 

And dumped the rackful on him in ten lots. 

I looked over the side once in the dust 

And caught sight of him treading- water-like, 

Keeping his head above. "Damn ye," I says,
